[MUSIC]
>> Kent C Dodds: We left off talking
about adding testing to our project.
And now we can write tests,
in our controller tests we're
requiring that controller.
We can expect that the controller exists,
which is a good thing.
Like I said we're not gonna get
too far into writing tests,
that would be a totally different subject,
but I think you can take it from here.
But there's one other thing that I
found in my time with webpack that
can be extremely difficult to do and
that is setting up code coverage.
So does anybody wanna take a whack
at explaining what code coverage is?
>> Kent C Dodds: Nobody wants to,
can anybody explain what code coverage is,
what it does, or even why it's useful,
you don't have to explain how it works.
>> Student: It's like a way to check the
lines of code that have been touched by
a test.
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah, yeah, so
if you think about it conceptually
when I'm going through my like my app.
When I load up the app, the browser is
going to run this code it's gonna say okay
I'm gonna create a new controller, it's
gonna run this line, this line, this line,
it'll run this line and then when this
new to do view action is called or
that handler is called then this.
This line will run and so
on and so forth, and so
let's say that you had something in
your code like right now because this
is not ES6 code we're saying
var that = this, right.
So the actual code here is not
totally relevant, but if I said
foo.bar and invoke that, I'm gonna have a
problem there because foo is not defined.
Luckily ESLint is gonna let me know that,
but if I were running this in a browser or
if I didn't run ESLint,
then I would never know
that that's gonna blow up my program
until I ship it off to production.
And so that's the value of code
coverage is it can tell you whether or
not that code is gonna
blow up when it's run.
Potentially, code coverage will not
tell you there are two different things.
There's code coverage and data coverage,
and data coverage is arguably
better because it's, and I don't even know
if it's a thing to be perfectly honest I'm
just making it up, but it would be
better because it would tell you,
okay this code has run this many
times with this type of data.
So this is run with integers greater
than zero and integers less than zero.
That would be even better because then
you could get a better idea of how your
program responds to
different kinds of inputs.
But the best we have right now is
whether or not lines, or run, or
if statements were like fallen into or
the alternates were executed.
And so that's what we're going to, that's
the problem we're going to be solving
next is setting up the tooling for
code coverage.
But I'm gonna go ahead and
let people ask questions if you have
any about the value of code coverage.
Or how it works.
Okay.
So let me really briefly, and
if you're online and you have questions
feel free to ask and interrupt.
Just really briefly I'm gonna
explain kind of how the tooling for
code coverage in JavaScript works so.
As far as I know there will
be a global variable created
somewhere in our test that's called
coverage, and it's an object.
And then that object has properties for
every single line,
and branch and function in your program.
And normally it'll be, I can't remember
exactly what the key is, but it's
some crazy hash and the value would be
how many times that line of code was run.
And so like in this case you'd say okay,
if we wanted to check that,
this line, the line above.
Well, so if this line was run that
means that this line was run and
this line was run, right.
Hopefully that makes sense.
So then it would say okay we're
gonna take this and say ++.
So that means okay, this line has run and
then we'll take some other one, and
then say ++ and it goes through and
adds this stuff to your code
everywhere inside of this function.
If you had an if statement
then it'll run it inside,
have it inside the if statement.
If you, whoops, have a ternary
operator like const v = foo,
foo otherwise bar whatever,
then it would say okay we'll add this and
we'll do fancy JavaScript to make it so
that foo is what's resolved to there and
bar, and of course each one of these
would be something totally separate.
And so that's how this is what's
called instrumenting your code.
For code coverage and
setting up the tooling.
There's a bunch of tooling
to enable you to do that.
But the challenge comes in
the fact that we're using several other
tools in tandem with these other things.
So one of the tools that makes
this challenging is Babel.
So Babel is going to take our code and
transpile it.
And what that results in often is
some code that we didn't write.
So let's look at an example
of some Babel output here.
Just what I have been here,
so this is react code.
This is a lot of code
that we didn't write.
And so if we said okay, take the output
of my Babel code and instrument that.
Then we're going to get instrumentation
reports on generated code which will
inflate or
deflate our code coverage results.
The end result being inaccuracy and
something that changes even when
our dependencies change and if Babel
changes the way that they do things, and
so you want to instrument your source code
for coverage, not your transpiled code.
And because of that it makes things
a little bit more complicated.
Because you just have to be able to
somehow hook into pre-transpilation stuff.
But nobody wants to write code
coverage stuff all over their code.
That would be a bad idea for
a lot of reasons,
not the least of which performance.
So all of that to give
kind of a framework for
why we even care about instrumenting
our code for coverage.